we're joined Now by th kmu an assistant
professor of public policy with the Doha
Institute of Graduate Studies and also a
specialist on conflict resolution and
international Aid thank you very much
for your time Mr kmu what do you make of
the latest comments by Hamas that there
will be no more release of captives
until the end of the war just how
damaging is it to the whole process to
revive a
ceasefire it's Elizabeth it's very
damaging but it's not surprising I mean
giving that the Americans have uh they
have given the Israelis the green light
to continue with this military operation
the Israelis are emboldened they're
encouraged to go all the way till the
end and um it's not a secret that the
goal they have stated from the beginning
of this war is toppling down Hamas I
think it's not a realistic goal and I'm
not sure until now what's the end result
for Israel how Israel is going to
achieve this in the Gaza Strip because
for me there is only one scenario uh
that I can imagine or Envision if Israel
wants to go all this way which is you
mean all the way in destroying Hamas
destroying Hamas it means that they have
to reoccupy the entire Gaza Strip and I
fear again that the transfer scenario is
still there on the table I know everyone
talks the talks the Americans say no for
transfer the Europeans say so Arab
governments but really what you see now
is pushing all these people into the
South into this small Corner small area
ofas inun that's a recipe for a disaster
this is a ticking bomb they're getting
closer to the Egyptian border you'll
have millions hundreds of thousands uh
uh cornered there in this narrow corner
of of Gaza Strip and if if the campaign
stays uh on the same Pace it's going to
explode I mean people will will cross to
the other side of the borders I I can't
see but this scenario happening given
the very dire situ the Gaza but they
can't go to the other side of the Border
there is a Crossing they can't just get
across it's but you never know what I
mean so this is a war zone now I mean I
mean tactically I mean Israel can I
don't want to go into scenarios but
historically uh gazans have fleed once
in 2007 to Egypt they crossed to shop
this was during another vicious uh Siege
Israel imposed but most of them returned
when they were done with their shopping
basic
Commodities but anything can happen I
mean I mean you have so many militants
inside the Gaza Strip resistance groups
Israel there I mean bombing or opening a
hole in the border crossing I mean why
not I mean and and so and imagine this
scenario even I mean the the official
Gates of the borders if people start
flocking in hundreds or thousands
towards that gate you think the
Egyptians will start shooting at them
who who's going to stop these refugees
these are refugees so it's so again I'm
still feeling this scenario I know
everyone is talking the tokens no for
transfer but the reality is so dire
there is there is a scenario let's talk
about something that's happening now
since the end of the ceasefire on Friday
morning we have seen hundreds of
civilians being killed we are once again
seeing those horrific pictures of you
know children with terrible injuries in
hospitals who is going to stop that the
US went to Great length to say we have
told Israel to protect civilian lives
clearly that's not happening no I mean
of course I mean I mean yesterday when
the when the the bombing campaigns
resumed the first thing the Israelis did
is they they targeted an horaa School in
jabalia in the North in the northern
part of the Gaza Strip and then
basically what they're doing is ethnic
cleansing math ethnic cleansing they
want to empty the northern part of the
Gaza Strip so Gaza and the north for the
Israelis this has to be a a buffer zone
the entire and they' said that Ro has
reported yesterday that Israel has
spoken to many Regional leaders about
creating the so-called buffer zone on
the Palestinian side of the Gaza Strip
so the buffer zone yes but they're
talking about a narrow Zone which is
like you know a one kilo or two kilos
inside Gaza but what I'm talking about
now is they haven't they're not done yet
with emptying the entire North Gaza and
the north is it possible to do that
there are still hundreds of thousands of
people in the north are they by
targeting honorous schools and
residential places again they're asking
people to leave South so as if they have
a clear strategy of emptying the north
of Gaza and the North and for me that's
troubling because once you squeeze the
entire population of the Gaza Strip in
the South and you C to half you have
full control of the the upper North I
think at a later point this could be
enough for Israel to stop the war if it
really manages to have a full control of
half of the Gaza Strip but is that
possible 49 days of bombing the North
and Hamas shows that it can still
release captives from Gaza City in the
center of Gaza well you know if if well
if they continue on the same Pace I mean
I'm I'm afraid it is possible because
people have to flee eventually so what
happened when the war stopped before the
truth hundreds of thousands remain in
Gaza and the north but also some uh
Reports say that 400 or close to half a
million already went South so and the
numbers are debated but now as the way
the way the systematic bombing going
again after schools after uh Refugee
centers after you know so it's as if
they're still not done with this
objective which is Gaza and the north to
completely empty it from its own people
and it's a horrifying scenario for me
and then later on it's I don't know it's
a stage based it seems to me it's a
stage based War you know approach so
basically they're creating all these
horrifying conditions squeezing people
in the South and eventually probably in
their mind they want or they're thinking
that Hamas then will have to engage with
us on on an exit strategy for Hamas but
realistically speaking again the the
main goal of this war which is toppling
down Hamas it will not happen unless
Israel have has full control of the Gaza
Strip and stays off in years in the G
strip and again this this I'm really
sorry I have to interrupt you because